---
description: Learn about how Maica uses Shifts within the overall solution.
---

# Shift

### Definition

A Shift, whilst similar to [Appointments](appointment.md), is the principal way of organising your [Resources](resource.md) into timeslots across your locations, including capturing the following key information:

* [Resource](resource.md)[s](resource.md) who are delivering the service as part of the Shift
* [Appointment Services](appointment-service.md) (Shift Service) which are being delivered as part of the Shift
* [Location](../../appointments/create-an-appointment/location.md) at which the Shift is being held
* Recurrance if the Shift is a repeating service being delivered

{% hint style="info" %}
You can learn how to create Shifts [here](/broken/pages/zNYLCCfkOlI0IqQ3sOvl).
{% endhint %}

### Purpose

A Shift sets out the structure under which [Resources](resource.md) are rostered on a [Location](../../appointments/create-an-appointment/location.md), including on a recurring basis. They are visually represented in the [Maica Planner](../../the-planner/planner-overview.md) and can be accessed using either the web browser or mobile device (using the Salesforce mobile application).

{% hint style="info" %}
The primary difference between Shifts and [Appointments](appointment.md) is that Shifts do not have specific [Participants](participant.md) associated with the Shift. The overall purpose of a Shift is to place [Resources](resource.md) at a specific [Location](../../appointments/create-an-appointment/location.md) at specific (and potentially recurring) times.
{% endhint %}

### Usage

In Maica, Shifts form the central mechanism by which information about [Resource](resource.md) rosters is captured and managed. Shifts are primarily managed through the [Maica Planner](../../the-planner/planner-overview.md) and can be created or managed by any authorised end user, whether this be a dedicated scheduling team member or the [Resource](resource.md) themselves.

### Final Thoughts

It's important to understand the main differences between Shifts and [Appointments](appointment.md), so we can best summarise this as follows:

* [Appointments](appointment.md) are structured to allow [Participants](participant.md) to receive specific services at specific times.
* Shifts are structures to place [Resources](resource.md) at a [Location](../../appointments/create-an-appointment/location.md) during specific times.

{% hint style="info" %}
Both, [Appointments](appointment-service.md) and Shifts can be recurring and will automatically be generated by Maica.
{% endhint %}
