---
description: Get an overview of General Troubleshooting in Maica.
---

# General Troubleshooting

This article provides solutions to common issues users may encounter while using **Maica**. The table below outlines frequent problems, their possible causes, and recommended fixes. If you experience an issue, follow the suggested steps to resolve it.

For more complex issues or if the problem persists, please [contact Maica Support](https://www.maica.com.au/contact-us).

{% hint style="info" %}
Please note, some of the issues listed below may not be directly related to Maica but could be caused by external factors such as browser settings or device configurations. Where applicable, we have provided external links to relevant documentation for further guidance.
{% endhint %}

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th>Issue </th><th>Error Message </th><th>Fix </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Appointments are not visible in the Planner</td><td></td><td><p></p><ul><li>Check Setup > Session Settings > Enable Lightning Web Security</li><li>Clear Cache and Refresh</li><li>Ensure the user has the necessary <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/s/9selzjEx6KX7RYEawAVr/data/permission-sets">Permission Sets </a></li><li><p>Toggle the <a href="../the-planner/planner-filter/">Planner Filters</a></p><ul><li>Show only unfilled Appointments</li><li>Show only my Appointments</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>No Agreement Item found for this Appointment Service Error</td><td><mark style="color:red;"><code>We could not find the required Service Agreement Item for the selected Appointment Service for this Appointment Date: DD/MM/YYY</code></mark></td><td><ul><li>Reconcile Agreement Items with Support Items in chosen Appointment Service and the Service Time, Service Day of the Support Item with the time/day you are scheduling the Appointment</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Resource not Available error </td><td><mark style="color:red;"><code>There's an Availability Conflict for the Resource</code></mark></td><td><p></p><ul><li>Check Maica Settings > <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/s/9selzjEx6KX7RYEawAVr/settings/validation-management">Validation Settings</a> > Availability Settings </li><li>Check the Resource > <a href="../resources/resource-profile.md#availability">Availability Records</a></li><li>Check the Resource > <a href="../resources/resource-profile.md#unavailability">Unavailability records</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Resource has Roster Mode conflict error </td><td><mark style="color:red;"><code>There's a Roster Mode Conflict for the Resource</code></mark> </td><td><ul><li>Check the Resource > <a href="../resources/resource-profile.md#roster-mode-overview">Roster Mode</a> </li><li>Check the Resource > <a href="../resources/resource-profile.md#availability">Availability Records</a></li><li>Check Maica Settings > <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/s/9selzjEx6KX7RYEawAVr/settings/rostering-management">Rostering Management</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Resource has no Shifts at the Appointment date &#x26; time error</td><td><mark style="color:red;"><code>This Resource has no Shifts at the Appointment date &#x26; time</code></mark></td><td><ul><li>Ensure the Resource is assigned to a Shift during the date &#x26; time the Appointment is being scheduled</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>User specific errors in the Salesforce Mobile Application</td><td></td><td><p></p><ul><li>Ensure your device’s Operating System is using the latest version</li><li>Ensure your Salesforce Application is using the latest version</li><li>Clear your Salesforce Application cookies. Directions <a href="https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=000386491&#x26;language=en_US&#x26;type=1">here</a>.</li><li>Refresh your session by logging out and then logging in</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>User specific errors in Salesforce on a Desktop device</td><td></td><td><p></p><ul><li>Ensure your device’s Operating System is using the latest version</li><li>Ensure your web browser is using the latest version</li><li>Clear your cookies and cache for the browser you’re using</li><li>Refresh your session by logging out and then logging in</li></ul><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>Inability to scroll horizontally in the Planner on Timeline View </td><td></td><td><ul><li>If your computer has a precision trackpad, swipe left or right horizontally with two fingers on the touchpad </li><li>If your computer does not have a precision touchpad, hold shift and swipe vertically on your touchpad or mouse </li><li>Enable horizontal scrolling in touchpad settings on your computer</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Start and End Time fields appear blank when editing Appointments or Service Agreements</td><td></td><td><p><strong>Note</strong>: Confirm the Chrome browser is up to date. This issue is usually caused by outdated Chrome versions failing to render standard date/time values. Hence, values are still present in the system and used in calculations, but do not display.</p><p></p><p><strong>Fix</strong>: Update Chrome and refresh the page.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Appointment updates or completions not processing as expected</td><td></td><td><p></p><ul><li>Check if any custom automation (such as Flows, Apex Triggers, or Managed Packages) may be temporarily disabling or interfering with Maica’s core Appointment processes.</li><li>Ensure all Appointment-related automations are re-enabled if temporarily disabled.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Maica Settings rendering in sections that belong to other areas of the Settings</td><td>Detected by inability to interact with Settings (eg: No picklist values presented). Settings that are rendering in where they should not be will not be able to be interacted with. </td><td><ul><li>Refresh the page </li><li>Clear cache, then refresh the page </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Production Record IDs copied into Sandbox after a refresh</td><td><em>Please bare in mind that when a Sandbox is refreshed from Production it will copy Production Record ID's into the Maica Settings which can cause issues checking out of Appointments. For example the Travel Timesheet Activity lookup in Travel Settings</em><br></td><td>Update all Maica Settings that reference record IDs to point to valid <strong>Sandbox</strong> records instead of Production records.</td></tr></tbody></table>

